Planning poker is an Agile estimating technique and it
can actually be a lot of fun as well.
So planning poker combines expert opinions,
analogies, and decomposed user stories.
Those are the three key elements we mentioned on the previous slide.
Participants.
All people who will be directly involved in designing,
developing, and supporting the iterations of the work effort.
Typically it's your software engineers.
It could be a database architect.
It could be someone who does quality testing.
Make sure you have the right participants in the room.
And what do you need?
You need a list of the features to be delivered.
Maybe several copies of a deck of cards.
Over there on the left,
you see they actually make cards for the Fibonacci Scale that you
can use and each person can have their own deck.
And you might even want an egg timer that can be used to limit the time spent.
As you know, some people like to talk a lot.
And it might kind of get you off track.
So sometimes you might say we get two minutes to talk about this,
especially if you have a lot of features.
At least make the first pass over all the features to get a rough feel
of these different story points and relative values.
Now let's go over the actual planning poker process on the next slide.
Thank you.
So here is the planning poker estimation process.
The meeting kickoff.
So the moderator provides a short overview of this iteration.
With a little open Q & A to discuss and clarify assumptions and risks.
And an estimation scale is chosen, such as the Fibonacci Scale,
and each person has their poker cards ready to go.
Each feature, story point, is discussed.
Each individual lays down a card, facedown, representing their estimate.
And then everyone shows their card simultaneously by turning them over.
The estimation process is by consensus.
People with the highest and lowest explain their estimates first.
Important to understand their assumptions and reasons for their estimates.
Why did they choose 20 points or why did they choose only three?
What are their assumptions and reasons?
This causes a really good and lively discussion and that's very, very important.
The rest of the process now is as follows, on the next slide.
Now to continue with the process,
repeat the estimation process until a consensus is reached.
Everyone does not have to be at the same estimate value of course,
but close enough to move forward.
You know, plus or minus a few points.
If you still have one or two way on the opposite ends of the scale then
you need to continue those discussions to rationalize those and better
understand what's going on underneath the hood.
You want to ensure that the discussion is structured.
Sometimes an egg timer can be used.
When it runs out, all discussion must cease.
Then another round of poker is played.
That is we, once again, think about the discussions that transpired,
pick the appropriate estimation value that we think
each person thinks is appropriate, places it facedown,
and then we flip the card over and begin again.
Usually by round 2, maybe 3, the estimates will like start to converge.
You'll want to document the user story and any discussions that
were taking place and any agreements or actions.
And you'll want to document the consensus estimated value as well,
or maybe the average value.
They probably won't all be identical.
And then you're going to move on to the next story point.
And when complete, you will have your story points,
and based on the team's velocity you can then
compute your actual schedule estimate, if you recall that.
So, if they all add up for this iteration,
to be 150 story points,
then based on your team's story point velocity how many story
points that they can actually implement and produce,
you can come up with a rough schedule as well.
All very simple and easy in Agile.
Now let's go on to the next slide and kind of summarize the overall section.
Benefits of Agile estimation.
I want to summarize the high-level, good,
neat things about this whole Agile process if I may.
It's easy.
Centered around user stories and customer features.
Very easy.
Nothing really technical in this whole process, very high level and abstract.
I think it's pretty fast.
That planning poker is high level and fast and you can get some good
input from the whole team of subject matter experts and come up with
some relative values and be able to give some feedback very quickly
back to management or the customers.
It's team oriented.
I am such a believer in team work and teams getting the job
done and leveraging each other's skills.
So you're going to have inputs from a multi-disciplined team.
Different points of view, database and software,
and maybe someone on the shop floor and someone in purchasing,
who knows, that can all participate in that process.
And of course it's always the focus on the customer.
That's so important.
User stories are the customer's requirements,
in their own words, things that they can actually relate to.
So I like this whole approach of Agile and the Agile estimation process.
Now let's move on to the next section and talk about Agile estimating techniques.